Rate limit dashboard documentation (#2103)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/reference/rl-dashboard/index.md

---
title: Rate limit dashboard
excerpt: >-
  Understand how to use the rate limit dashboard, how to access it, how to use the multiple views using the graphs, and how to investigate a rate limit violation
---

# Rate limit dashboard

The rate limit dashboard is a tool that helps you understand the usage of each endpoint and investigate potential [rate limit](/docs/reference/rate-limits/) issues. The dashboard provides:

> * The ability to track the endpoint's use

Reviewer: Isn't the endpoint's "usage" not "use"?

Author: Fixed.

* Alerts when you are about to hit or have hit the rate limit
* The ability for you to investigate the issue when an endpoint has reached the rate limit

You can find out more about the rate limit dashboard in these sections:

 Section                                                                          | Description                                                                                     |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------  | -------------------------------------------------------------------------               |
| [About the rate limit dashboard](#about-the-rate-limit-dashboard)                                                          | A summary of the rate limit dashboard                     |
| [Access the dashboard](#access-the-dashboard)                                                                  | The different types of notifications that provide access to the dashboard |

> | [Key components of the dashboard](#key-components-of-the-dashboard)                                                        | RA description of the key components on the dashboard                                                      |

Reviewer: "RA description" is this a typo? What does RA mean?

Author: Fixed, thanks!

* You've hit a rate limit when you're in the Admin Console, and a banner appears to inform you. Click **utilization history** in the banner to open the Rate Limits Dashboard for that particular endpoint or **syslog** to open the System Log.

![Access the dashboard by link in the banner](/img/RLDashboard2.png "Displays the banner in the dashboard that notifies you of a rate limit violation with the link to the endpoint's rate limit dashboard")

* You've hit a rate limit warning or violation, and a rate limit event (violation or warning) is created in the System Log from where you can click **View Utilization** under **Event info** to go to the rate limits dashboard. All the rate limit events in the System Log (violations and warnings) have a link to the rate limit dashboard.

![Access the dashboard by link in the System Log](/img/RLDashboard3.png "Displays the event in the System Log that notifies you of a rate limit violation with the link to the endpoint's rate limit dashboard")

## Key components of the dashboard

> The rate limits dashboard provides data usage information for the endpoint based on a set of statistics and shows multiple views of the data usage. The dashboard helps you to investigate the rate limit or violation issue and to prevent subsequent rate limit issues from occurring. To view the most recent data, refresh your screen. There may be a slight delay of two to four minutes in obtaining new data.

Reviewer: "The rate limit**s** dashboard" should be "the rate limit dashboard"

Author: Fixed.

### Overview pane

The Overview pane provides a summary of the data use for the specified endpoint. The following information on data use is displayed:

* Rate Limit: The rate limit for this bucket per minute for your org. If the traffic hits the rate limit for your org, the system triggers a rate limit violation.

> * Latest Utilization: The latest use for the bucket, which includes the endpoint and its sub-endpoints, as of the specified time

Reviewer: The latest use "of" the bucket

Author: Fixed

* Average Utilization: The average use of the bucket within the last 24 hours and the last hour
* Downtime: The amount of time that the org is affected by a rate limit violation on this endpoint

### Rate limit multiplier

A customer can additionally purchase the rate limit multiplier, which is an add-on feature that allows the customer to multiply an existing rate limit to, for example, three times the current rate limit.

![Summary of the rate limit utilization over time pane](/img/RLDashboard4.png "Displays the line graph, bar graph, and timeline graph")

> The key benefit of purchasing the rate limit multiplier, therefore getting an increased rate limit, is not to stop end users from using an application. The rate limit multiplier is based on the customer's org and what the expected usage would be. If a customer has dynamic scale, the info icon beside **Rate Limit** in the Overview pane indicates which tier was purchased, and the graphs in the [Rate limit utilization over time pane] will reflect the applied rate limit multiplier.

Reviewer: Are we purposely keeping " The rate limit multiplier is based on the customer's org and what the expected usage would be" vague? It's clear in the next line that Dynamic Scale is something that is purchased with multiple tiers. It's not clear here what the Workforce Multiplier is based on. Do we have the Workforce Multiplier documented somewhere?

Author: Yes, it's on purpose. The discussion in the Google doc with Michael and Joe was to keep this generic.

### Rate limit utilization over time pane

The Rate limit utilization over time pane comprises the line graph, bar graph, and timeline graph.

![Summary of the rate limit utilization over time pane](/img/RLDashboard5.png "Displays the line graph, bar graph, and timeline graph")

#### Line graph

The line graph shows the total number of requests and the number of unique IPs over the past hour for the bucket if the **Total Requests** and **# of Unique IPs** toggle buttons are enabled. If an IP address is selected in the bar graph, the line graph also shows the traffic from that IP address.

Each data point represents how many times the endpoint was called within that one-minute window. You can select a point in the line graph to see which IPs were making requests at that time. If there's a spike in the rate limit usage, you can hover over the line graph and view the number of requests and the number of unique IPs in the past hour.

#### Timeline graph

> The timeline graph shows use over the last week. When a rate violation occurs, you can select a day from the past week in the drop-down menu on the timeline graph and compare the same point in time with a day from the past week.

Reviewer: shows "the usage" over the last week

Author: Fixed

  Understand how to use the rate limit dashboard, how to access it, how to use the multiple views using the graphs, and how to investigate a rate limit violation
---

# Rate limit dashboard

> The rate limit dashboard is a tool to help you to understand and investigate the rate limit and the current utilization of each endpoint. The dashboard provides:

Reviewer 2: Utilization isn't conversational and is considered jargon. Can we switch that out, please?

utilization -> use

> * The ability to track the endpoint's utilization

Reviewer 2: utilization -> use

You can investigate high usage of a rate limit or a rate limit violation. Once you know the issue, you can take the appropriate corrective action. For example, if the issue is high traffic, you may want to increase the rate limits. In cases where the issue is a rogue app or bad script, you can disable the app, or block that traffic. Whatever the issue is, you can remediate the issue through self-service. In cases where a higher rate limit is required, you can create a support case, by sending a request to the correct team for a rate limit increase.

## Access the dashboard

When a rate limit violation occurs, you're notified in the following ways and can access the Rate Limits dashboard from the link in the notification:

* You receive a rate limit email that informs you that you've hit a rate limit for an endpoint. Click **View utilization history** in the email to navigate to the Rate Limits Dashboard and System Log for that particular endpoint.

![Access the dashboard by email notification](/img/RLDashboard1.png "Displays the email notification of a rate limit violation with the link to the endpoint's rate limit dashboard")

> * You've hit a rate limit when you're in the rate limits dashboard or the Admin console, and a banner displays to inform you. Click **utilization history** in the banner to open the Rate Limits Dashboard for that particular endpoint or **syslog** to open the System Log.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You've hit a rate limit when you're in the rate limits dashboard or the Admin Console, and a banner appears to inform you. Click **utilization history** in the banner to open the Rate Limits Dashboard for that particular endpoint or **syslog** to open the System Log.
```

Is it the Rate Limits Dashboard, the Rate Limits dashboard, or the rate limits dashboard?

![Access the dashboard by link in the banner](/img/RLDashboard2.png "Displays the banner in the dashboard that notifies you of a rate limit violation with the link to the endpoint's rate limit dashboard")

* You've hit a rate limit warning or violation, and a rate limit event (violation or warning) is created in the System Log from where you can click **View Utilization** under **Event info** to go to the rate limits dashboard. All the rate limit events in the System Log (violations and warnings) have a link to the rate limit dashboard.

![Access the dashboard by link in the System Log](/img/RLDashboard3.png "Displays the event in the System Log that notifies you of a rate limit violation with the link to the endpoint's rate limit dashboard")

## Key components of the dashboard

> The rate limits dashboard provides utilization for the endpoint based on a set of statistics and shows multiple views of the data utilization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The rate limits dashboard provides use for the endpoint based on a set of statistics and shows multiple views of the data use.
```

Does the rate limits dashboard provide use for the endpoint or data on endpoint use?

![Summary of the key components of the dashboard](/img/RLDashboard4.png "Displays the endpoint's utilization and the multiple views of the data utilization")

> The dashboard helps you to investigate the rate limit or violation issue and to prevent subsequent rate limit issues from occurring. To view the most recent data, refresh your screen. There may be a slight delay of two to four minutes in obtaining new data, so you should wait a moment before you refresh your screen.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The dashboard helps you to investigate the rate limit or violation issue and to prevent subsequent rate limit issues from occurring. To view the most recent data, refresh your screen. There may be a slight delay of two to four minutes in obtaining new data.
```

I don't think that last piece is necessary to convey your meaning. LMK if you disagree!

### Overview pane

> The Overview pane provides a summary of the utilization data for the specified endpoint.

Reviewer 2: utilization -> data use

![Summary of the utilization data for an endpoint](/img/RLDashboard5.png "Displays the utilization data for an endpoint with a rate limit violation or warning")

The following utilization data is displayed:

> * Latest Utilization: The latest utilization for the bucket, which includes the endpoint and its sub-endpoints, as of the specified time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Latest Utilization: The latest use for the bucket, which includes the endpoint and its sub-endpoints, as of the specified time.
```

> * Average Utilization: The average utilization of the bucket within the last 24 hours and the last hour

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Average Utilization: The average use of the bucket within the last 24 hours and the last hour
```

> * Downtime: The amount of time that the org has been affected by a rate limit violation on this endpoint

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Downtime: The amount of time that the org is affected by a rate limit violation on this endpoint
```

* Rate Limit: The rate limit for this bucket per minute for your org. If the traffic hits the rate limit for your org, the system triggers a rate limit violation.

### Rate limit utilization over time pane

The Rate limit utilization over time pane comprises the line graph, bar graph, and timeline graph.

![Summary of the rate limit utilization over time pane](/img/RLDashboard6.png "Displays the line graph, bar graph, and timeline graph")

#### Line graph

The line graph shows the total number of requests over the past hour for the bucket. Each data point represents how many times the endpoint was called within that one-minute window. If there's a spike in the rate limit usage, you can hover over the line graph and view the number of requests and the number of unique IPs in the past hour.

#### Timeline graph

> The timeline graph shows utilization over the last 28 hours. When a rate violation occurs, as indicated by a spike at the point on the timeline graph, you can compare the same point in time from the past day.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The timeline graph shows use over the last 28 hours. When a rate violation occurs, as indicated by a spike at the point on the timeline graph, you can compare the same point in time from the past day.
```

The line graph can show the number of unique IPs that are creating traffic at a given minute. For example, the line graph can show many users are signing in at the same time, perhaps to attend a company-wide meeting. By comparing the number of unique IPs to the number of unique requests, you can see almost the same number of IPs as the number of requests. This means that there are a lot of IPs creating the traffic and not just one IP consuming all the traffic.

### Timeline graph view

The timeline graph gives you an overview of the usage from the last 28 hours so that you can drill into other time periods from the previous day. This graph enables you to understand whether this rate limit was an abnormal spike in usage compared to fairly regular usage up to that point in time.

### Bar graph view

> The bar graph compares a rogue IP or App with other IPs or Apps. For example, the bar graph can show a single rogue IP that is responsible for a spike in traffic that is displayed in the line graph. It can also show many users that are signing in at the same time, perhaps to attend a company-wide meeting or to check out a special offer that was just delivered in a mass email to a company's clients.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The bar graph compares a rogue IP or App with other IPs or Apps. For example, the bar graph can show a single rogue IP that is responsible for a spike in traffic that appears in the line graph. It can also show many users that are signing in at the same time, perhaps to attend a company-wide meeting or to check out a special offer that was just delivered in a mass email to a company's clients.
```
